Overlapping Triangles: Find the Shaded Area.
The answer is hidden by default. so click Show Answer above to view the solution.
Problem.
Diagram: two congruent triangles overlap. and the shaded region in the middle is a trapezoid.
Given: the two triangles are congruent. and the diagram shows lengths six and nine. with height six.
Find the area of the shaded region.
Main idea.
Split the figure around the shaded trapezoid into three parts. labeled one. two. and three.
Because the two triangles are congruent. their areas are equal.
Part one plus part two equals part two plus part three.
Subtract part two from both sides. and we get the next equation.
Part one equals part three.
So the shaded trapezoid can be computed directly as one trapezoid.
Calculation.
The trapezoid has top base six. bottom base nine. and height six.
Use the trapezoid area formula.
Area equals open parenthesis top base plus bottom base close parenthesis times height divided by two.
Area equals open parenthesis six plus nine close parenthesis times six divided by two.
Area equals fifteen times six divided by two. which equals forty-five.
Shaded area equals forty-five.
Summary.
The key is not brute force: first use congruent triangles to get part one equals part three. then treat the shaded part as an ordinary trapezoid.
Final answer: forty-five.